README.md, before:

# taskbot
A Discord taskbot that uses GitHub tasks as a backing store.

## config

**`.env`** - Contains secrets loaded from an ENV file. Requires `DISCORD_TOKEN` set with a valid Discord app token:

    DISCORD_TOKEN=discord-token
    GITHUB_TOKEN=your-github-token


## v0.1
The prototype is working, now to add the bones: simple commands for adding, editing and checking on open tickets. First step is simple use cases.

* list open issues, scoped by forum, with param for project, user, etc. list #project, list @user
* status - status report of # open issues and 
* add -
* update - 

## proof-of-concept - csvbot
A bot backed by simple CSV file, where info can be queried, added and updated.
Eventually, backed by a google sheet.

The bot uses the column names for query and response. i.e. given the columns:

    id, title, project, status, assigned, updated, notes

> $add title="This is a new item" project=ldap
> $update id=23 assigned=Paul
> $find status=open assigned=Paul

That's first pass. Starting with https://interactions-py.github.io/interactions.py/Guides/01%20Getting%20Started/#__tabbed_1_2

Putting the new test bot in `cvsbot.py`.

Working so for, up to adding new rows and listing.

Next up: id mgt and update command and search/select.


## Initial Prototype - working notes

* Get initial bot working using [discord.py](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/). DONE
* Adding token management with `.env` file. DONE
* Adding simple github API call to list issues.
* Failure with initial attempt with ghapi. Terrible docs, no example code, cryptic errors. Blah.
* Simple implementation using https://github.com/PyGithub/PyGithub has got list issues working. YAY!
* Demonstrated: Access to both discord and github to access relevant data end-to-end.


## Notes
https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py seems the best client lib for Python.
https://github.com/interactions-py/interactions.py looks like an insteresting alternative.

### Work Log

Just noticed the way I was weaving this doc together, I wasn't leaving myself very clear notes.

2023-04-28

Underlying bot is working with existing (feature-incomplete) expectations. Next step is "update" function, which will require managing the file contents for a full file re-write (the only option, I think, unless the CSV libs provide one). Simple testing in place to keep me from tracking down syntax error via the full discord bot deployment, but dpytest isn't working yet.

Rough sketch:
- Get update() and a few more tests working
- Add task bot commands!
- Figure out cogs in discord.py
- get dpytest running

Commit message:

Google Sheets store is almost fully working.

README.md, after:

# taskbot
A Discord taskbot that uses GitHub tasks as a backing store.

## config

**`.env`** - Contains secrets loaded from an ENV file. Requires `DISCORD_TOKEN` set with a valid Discord app token:

    DISCORD_TOKEN=discord-token
    GITHUB_TOKEN=your-github-token

See [gspread auth docs](https://docs.gspread.org/en/latest/oauth2.html) on setting up the Google access key.


## v0.1
The prototype is working, now to add the bones: simple commands for adding, editing and checking on open tickets. First step is simple use cases.

* list open issues, scoped by forum, with param for project, user, etc. list #project, list @user
* status - status report of # open issues and 
* add -
* update - 

## proof-of-concept - csvbot
A bot backed by simple CSV file, where info can be queried, added and updated.
Eventually, backed by a google sheet.

The bot uses the column names for query and response. i.e. given the columns:

    id, title, project, status, assigned, updated, notes

> $add title="This is a new item" project=ldap
> $update id=23 assigned=Paul
> $find status=open assigned=Paul

That's first pass. Starting with https://interactions-py.github.io/interactions.py/Guides/01%20Getting%20Started/#__tabbed_1_2

Putting the new test bot in `cvsbot.py`.

Working so for, up to adding new rows and listing.

Next up: id mgt and update command and search/select.


## Initial Prototype - working notes

* Get initial bot working using [discord.py](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/). DONE
* Adding token management with `.env` file. DONE
* Adding simple github API call to list issues.
* Failure with initial attempt with ghapi. Terrible docs, no example code, cryptic errors. Blah.
* Simple implementation using https://github.com/PyGithub/PyGithub has got list issues working. YAY!
* Demonstrated: Access to both discord and github to access relevant data end-to-end.


## Notes
https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py seems the best client lib for Python.
https://github.com/interactions-py/interactions.py looks like an insteresting alternative.

### Work Log

Just noticed the way I was weaving this doc together, I wasn't leaving myself very clear notes.

2023-04-28

Underlying bot is working with existing (feature-incomplete) expectations. Next step is "update" function, which will require managing the file contents for a full file re-write (the only option, I think, unless the CSV libs provide one). Simple testing in place to keep me from tracking down syntax error via the full discord bot deployment, but dpytest isn't working yet.

Rough sketch:
- Get update() and a few more tests working - DONE
- Add google sheet backing - DONE, except for add() - leaving the ID issue outstanding
- SheetBacking add() and supporting test case.
- Add task bot commands!
- Figure out cogs in discord.py
- get dpytest running
